# Kinematics
These Python files calculate forward and inverse kinematics for the UR3 robot set up in the lab. Forward kinematics finds the position and velocity of the end effector of the robot, given the dimesions of each joint and their axes of rotation relative to the body frame (in this case). Inverse kinematics finds the angles of each joint in the robot given the dimensions of each joint and the location of the end effector in the world frame. For the inverse kinematics solution, we assume that the fifth joint is always at -90 degrees so that the end effector is always perpendicular to the table. Since this is mostly based around calculations, the packages used are numpy, sympy, scipy, and math. There is a written report related to each file that explains the process and results thoroughly.

## Usage
These are fairly simple files that the user can scroll to the bottom of to edit the test cases with the data to be calculated. For forward kinematics, the input data is an array of six joint angles in radians where the joints are labeled starting at the base and working towards the end effector. The Forward_Kinematics.py file can also produce a symbolic solution the exponential matrices corresponding to each joint.  
  
For inverse kinematics, the input is the x, y, and z coordinates of the end effector in the world frame and the yaw angle in radians, which is clearly labeled in the report. The Inverse_Kinematics.py file also contains a function inverseAndCheck() which passed the same input will find a solution and then put the solution through the forwardKinematics() function to confirm dthat the values are correct.
